Why have I created Readibl? Well, maybe it's a deficiency but I find bulky texts often hard to read, and also not very attractive to read. Actually I created a program Flashread in Visual Basic in the late 90's of the former century which could reformat ascii-text into richtext. But I was not into open source stuff so that just stayed on my computer. And I am delighted to see a stuffy black text light up like a christmas-tree! But here I shall list some motives in a more formal way.

## Why reformatting can be usefull?
* By reformatting you help the brain to parse a text. While offcourse we can read unformatted texts I think the reformatting takes away a load of the mental processing by the brain. To use an analogy of information like food, serving nicely prepared chunks of text up to our hungry brain / stomach, make the digestion a lot easier.
* Each language has it's challenges in the parsing. A lot has to do with recognizability of grammatical functions of words. Like in English -as a functional language- you can have issues like a noun being identical to a verb (to load and a load), chained nouns with interspacing so that it takes a while before realizing it is a chained noun. The example "time flies like an arrow" is classical one i guess (allthough I have never seen a time fly). In Dutch and even more so in German one places infinitives or participles at the end of the sentences, letting the reader wonder w.t.f. they are talking about (even native ones). One learns to look at the end of the sentence, but when it is composite sentences with a lot of subsentences, it is  placed at the end of the subsentence. Also in the older German texts it appeared to be fashion and cool to create sentences of half a page long!
* Besides the unburdening of the brain you also speed up your reading if it has prepared chunks, and it is easier to skim a text that way (allthough the text becomes longer in size).
* Index-keeping. The formatted text is irregular in shape so that it is easier to remember what part you have read and what you haven't read yet. This as opposed to a regular, square block of text where you can easily forget what line you have read.
* The colorfull appearance can be pleasing, but there is no account about tastes. I have tried to takes colors so that the separation between them is maximal, which also conditions the maximal number of usable colors. Also they must be well readible in night-mode-screens. Because links are usually colored blue, only a turqoise-like color is used for noun-replacements. Maybe in the future I might transfer the colors from the code to the config-file, if asked for. I am sorry for the color-blind people; if asked I might think about alternatives like underlining, boldening, depending of the work it turns out to be.
* Dislexic people may helped with this software.
* Allthough the summary-function is not reformatting, it can be quite usefull.
